---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
---

My name is Alitzel Villanueva and I am Ph.D. student pursuing a Ph.D. in Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB). My goal is to contribute to the scientific community as a principal investigator examining the environmental stressors in coastal systems and influence and inform environmental policy through research while mentoring the next generation of young scientists interested in conservation. From a young age, I have been passionate about social justice and interested in using science to illuminate how to mitigate extreme environmental impacts. This led to an interdisciplinary interest in conservation ecology and majoring in Environmental Studies with a focus on Conservation Biology at Middlebury College, where I completed two Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) internships that helped me gain confidence and experience to conduct my undergraduate thesis project on the effects of persistent organic pollutants and climate change on Atlantic killifish embryos with Dr. Eric Moody. Together, these experiences solidified my passion for ecology and illuminated my growing interest in marine systems. After graduation, I enrolled in California State University Northridge’s master’s program in Biology, where I was advised by Drs. Kerry Nickols and Mark Steele, to further my education in ecology and learn about marine systems, specifically relating to the California Southern Bight. While there, I completed a master's thesis that examined the effects of thermal stratification on kelp forest persistence and their communities. Currently, I am continuing to investigate thermal effects on kelp forests, specifically, examining how exposure to heat stress via marine heatwaves (MHWs) can impact the early-life stages of giant kelp. At UCSB, I am working with Dr. Gretchen Hofmann to build upon the tools I gained in my master’s program to dive deeper into the role seasonality and biogeography play in giant kelp zoospores’ thermal tolerance as well as if there is a legacy effect due to MHWs experienced by adult kelp individuals in the Santa Barbara Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) in situ. These questions are crucial to making informed decisions that will allow us to conserve our seascape and are the main drivers in why I choose to pursue this path focused on climate effects on marine environments and organisms.
